README.md, before:


<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# streamDepletr

[![lifecycle](https://img.shields.io/badge/lifecycle-experimental-orange.svg)](https://www.tidyverse.org/lifecycle/#experimental)
[![Travis-CI Build
Status](https://travis-ci.org/szipper/streamDepletr.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/szipper/streamDepletr)

streamDepletr is an R package with functions for assessing the impacts
of groundwater pumping on wells. There are two primary categories of
functions: - Analytical streamflow depletion models, which estimate the
change in groundwater inputs to a stream resulting from pumping (`hunt`,
`glover`, `hantush`, `intermittent_pumping`) - Depletion apportionment
equations, which distribute streamflow depletion estimating using the
analytical models to different reaches within a stream network
(`apportion_inverse`, `apportion_web`, `apportion_polygon`,
`apportion_wedge`)

## Installation

You can install streamDepletr from GitHub with:

``` r
# install.packages("devtools")
devtools::install_github("szipper/streamDepletr")
```

## Example

Calculating streamflow depletion as a fraction of the pumping rate
(`Qf`) over the first 100 days of pumping:

``` r
require(streamDepletr)
#> Loading required package: streamDepletr

# calculate depletion fraction
Qf <- glover(t  = seq(1,100),     # timesteps to evaluate
             d  = 150,            # well to stream distance
             S  = 0.10,           # specific yield
             Tr = 30*1e-5*86400)  # 50 m thick aquifer with hydraulic conductivity of 1e-5 m/s

# plot
plot(seq(1,100), Qf, type="l", xlab="Time [days]", ylab="Qf, Streamflow Depletion Fraction")
```

![](README-SamplePlot-1.png)<!-- -->

Commit message:

Working on README and vignette

README.md, after:


<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# streamDepletr

[![lifecycle](https://img.shields.io/badge/lifecycle-experimental-orange.svg)](https://www.tidyverse.org/lifecycle/#experimental)
[![Travis-CI Build
Status](https://travis-ci.org/szipper/streamDepletr.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/szipper/streamDepletr)

streamDepletr is an R package with functions for assessing the impacts
of groundwater pumping on wells. There are two primary categories of
functions:

  - Analytical streamflow depletion models, which estimate the change in
    groundwater inputs to a stream resulting from pumping (`hunt`,
    `glover`, `hantush`, `intermittent_pumping`)
  - Depletion apportionment equations, which distribute streamflow
    depletion estimating using the analytical models to different
    reaches within a stream network (`apportion_inverse`,
    `apportion_web`, `apportion_polygon`, `apportion_wedge`)

## Installation

You can install streamDepletr from GitHub with:

``` r
# install.packages("devtools")
devtools::install_github("szipper/streamDepletr")
```

## Example

Calculating streamflow depletion as a fraction of the pumping rate
(`Qf`) over the first 100 days of pumping:

``` r
require(streamDepletr)
#> Loading required package: streamDepletr

# calculate depletion fraction
Qf <- glover(t  = seq(1,100),     # timesteps to evaluate
             d  = 150,            # well to stream distance
             S  = 0.10,           # specific yield
             Tr = 30*1e-5*86400)  # 50 m thick aquifer with hydraulic conductivity of 1e-5 m/s

# plot
plot(seq(1,100), Qf, type="l", xlab="Time [days]", ylab="Qf, Streamflow Depletion Fraction")
```

![](README-SamplePlot-1.png)<!-- -->

For more examples, please check out the vignette:
`browseVignettes("streamDepletr")`
